[Music]
you know as soon as the sun came up at 5
30 or so like I was wide awake and so to
say I'm awake what can I do to ground
myself to be the dad I want to be to be
the person I want to be to be the
business owner I want to be my strongest
meditation practice started then and it
came from a place of need rather than a
place of I should be doing this
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease
[Music]
all right everybody today I'm excited to
speak with Joe sanak Joe is a business
consultant and a productivity researcher
he's written five books on the topic the
most recent being Thursday is the new
Friday which is a book on the four day
work week which is an idea that I can
definitely get behind he's also the
podcaster behind practice of the
practice the podcast how are you doing
today Joe I'm doing great Brett how are
you yeah doing well
um I'm really really happy to have you
on the show today yeah yeah this Show's
awesome so can't wait to be here or I am
here so can't wait to talk yeah well
tell me a little tell me and the
audience a little bit more about
yourself what did I miss there I know
that you've also been uh living in a
camper van with your kids
tell me something more about Joe sanak
to fill us in here yeah you know I took
a really traditional path in regards to
studying psychology and getting master's
degrees in psychology and counseling and
worked in the nonprofit world for a long
time and also just mental health had a
private practice for a number of years
so it was in the work of individual
counseling and growing a group practice
which uh I really helped and enjoyed
helping angry kids for a long time so I
think that really positioned me to know
a few different techniques in regards to
connection because teenagers just often
rightfully so have a lot of boundaries
up and uh Shields up so that's part of
my history I went into business and
podcasting back in 2012 to just teach
therapists how to start growth scale and
exit their private practices and so I've
been doing that work for a decade now I
have two awesome daughters that are
seven and ten and they are bold and
creative and push back on things so you
know it's a two-sided coin lots of to
find and lots of challenges beautiful
well I want to get right into the meat
of it then tell me something in in your
personal Journey that shifted the way
that you relate to either your therapy
practice or your growth uh as a as a
consultant and your growth in business
yeah so the biggest thing actually is
pretty recent uh in September of 2020 my
family we went on the road in a camper
37-foot pull behind camper I'd never
pulled a trailer before uh you know
there's very few times in life that I'd
never even backed up a boat uh and so
there's very few times in life that you
have the opportunity to learn something
new that if you do it wrong has the
potential to kill people so you know
took this on uh Christina who was my
wife at the time uh it was her big dream
and I was totally down for it and so we
were on the road for nine months living
in National Parks all over the nation uh
but in February of 2021 we began our
uncoupling and
um in the middle of this road trip uh
she decided she wanted to stay in
California and not have the family stay
with her
um so we spent a couple months um kind
of sorting through some of that and a
lot of uncertainty and I mean 17 years
of marriage where it was very confusing
uh and so in that uh you know getting
her a car getting her an apartment not
knowing if this was temporary or long
term
um and then you know taking two little
kids seven and ten across the country
all alone uh you know I had never backed
up a camper without another adult
helping so to have you know these little
kids with walkie-talkies helping me back
up the camper and
um having them have big questions like
why isn't mommy coming home and so then
you know throughout that summer going
through that uncoupling and eventual
divorce and now being an unexpected
single dad of two little girls that you
know their mom flies in once a month to
hang out with them for a bit but it's
one of those shifts that in so many ways
um revealed in me my own thoughts and I
mean we can kind of go into some of that
but to really in the past I would have
tried to optimize like how can we get
marriage therapy how can we work on us
how can we fix this but to really let
that go and to go into my own
self-development during that time to let
things unfold really became a really
helpful thing for me in a ton of
different ways wow yeah that must have
been really challenging to be going
through and uncoupling with your kids
going straight from being together 24 7
on a road on a you know living together
on the road not just a road trip and
then having the uncoupling haven't
happened in that in that process
that must have been really hard yeah I
think especially the two months before I
left as I knew it seemed like we were
uncoupling
um and the girls didn't know yet
um to you know every morning when the
sun kind of hit like we're in a camper
together you know we're seeing each
other every day you know as soon as the
sun came up at 5 30 or so like I was
wide awake and so to say I'm awake what
can I do to ground myself to be the dad
I want to be to be the person I want to
be to be the business owner I want to be
my strongest meditation practice started
then and it came from a place of need
rather than a place of I should be doing
this because prior to that meditation
was something that oh I should probably
do that all the like smart people do
that all the successful people do it but
to really have it be a place of need
where every morning I was you know doing
Sam Harris's 20-minute daily meditation
um you know was reading the book
awareness and then the book The
untethered Soul uh to really just allow
things to unfold naturally studying
taoism a ton during that period of time
to just let myself allow the world to
unfold and to stop clinging to what I
thought it should look like uh and then
to have daily walks and daily plan tanks
and daily push-ups to just get that
physical you know frustration anger
sadness out it set up a foundation for
this new life that you know still
sustains and has become something that
uh are tools that I probably wouldn't
have learned as quickly if it wasn't
such an intense situation you mentioned
that you you had studied psychology and
you'd been doing therapy and then you
had this realization that you really had
this need for these for this deeper
self-exploration and and these tools and
what was it about your
your way of being with yourself prior to
having this experience that you now
recognize wasn't serving you I think
I've always been we might call it like a
knowledge broker someone that just
craved knowledge and curiosity and you
know I double majored in both psychology
and comparative religion in my undergrad
and you know after I graduated took a
year off to travel and you know went to
Nepal and Thailand and stayed in some
monasteries and went to Haiti and you
know met some Voodoo priests and so I've
always been someone that wanted to see
how other people view spirituality and
philosophy and ways of thinking
um but in a lot of ways
it was kind of a slow creep to going
from kind of your head to your heart and
just allowing that to unfold and I think
for me I'm not sure that it was that I
did anything wrong prior but it's more
that I hadn't I had been through really
tough things like in 2012 uh my oldest
daughter had open heart surgery and then
you know a couple months after I was
diagnosed with cancer and I mean that
was 2012 was just a rough year but it
didn't really crack me open in the same
way as you know having you know all this
stuff hit the fan uh and there's things
that I wouldn't talk about publicly in
that but that were just terribly
terribly hard and so to have that full
on cracking open I think that was almost
what was needed in order for me to go
kind of deeper into my psyche and into
my own role within that couple for 17
years yeah so tell me having having had
that cracking open one of the things
that you know Joe other Joe and I often
talk about is that heartbreak increases
your capacity to love it allows you to
see the world more clearly beyond your
ego beyond your identification and it's
something that we often avoid and in the
avoidance of we end up recreating for
ourselves and then when it comes we find
that we're we we tend to find if we've
processed it fully that we're actually
okay as we are and have everything we
need
and what is it that if that resonates
with you what are a couple of gems that
you pulled from this heartbreak yeah I
think the the biggest thing is uh you
know as Michael Singer talks about it
that natural unfolding of life
um I've always been a achiever someone
that goes after big things I'm an
Enneagram three and you know all those
you know type inventories point to that
I like to get things done
um but to really understand what it
means to find peace kind of in the
moment without having achievement be the
thing or that external reinforcement be
the thing that provides that you know my
dad is a school psychologist you know in
that era of psychology behavioral
Psychology was a huge thing and it was a
big step forward for the evolution of
parenting to go from the World War II
generation that oftentimes hit their
kids to I'm going to give them a star
chart and give them rewards like that's
a huge step and it also created in me a
ton of external reinforcement the star
chart that someone in Authority gives me
that doesn't always help the individual
develop internally to find the internal
Lotus of control and so to be able to
get to that point where I'm able to say
okay I've achieved so much great but I
also have a life that millions of people
would die to have this life exactly how
it is yeah I'm curious and this might be
a vulnerable question to answer and you
don't have to but to what extent did
that you know external star chart get
projected into your relationship
and how much did that impact it I mean I
think that I I've been aware of kind of
that star chart mentality
um for a long time and so I've been
doing a lot of work you know even since
College in adding to that because I
don't think it's necessarily bad to have
that as a starting point I think too
often we just throw out the way that we
were raised and say it's bad
um you know there's this uh philosophy
of personal development called spiral
Dynamics with you know the first tier
each phase you're kind of saying that
the group behind me is so dumb because
they think this way now I'm so evolved
but kind of the next step is what they
say is transcending and including to
take the best of things and include that
and to just say the other things don't
serve me and so I think that
um within the relationship itself I
definitely had a there's a way to do
this that people have studied and
figured out so the Gatman Institute
they've been studying marriage for 40
years they have all of these great
research techniques why wouldn't we
Implement those within a marriage
um and so I would say it probably wasn't
as Star charty as it was we can
optimized this we can optimize this and
and probably
watering the lawn for two people and
that's why the grass was green rather
than letting things naturally unfold if
I had genuinely stepped back and didn't
overcompensate as much as I did most
likely this would have fallen apart
years ago because the natural disconnect
probably would have been revealed much
earlier at least you know in hindsight
but who knows you know I mean if we
could always replay history in a million
different ways if I could have done this
or done this but I mean I think what I'm
seeing is
for me personally I don't want to
overcompensate for someone else's lack
of their own development like I
shouldn't care about their development
more than they care about their own
development yeah or try to fix them or
think you know better for them on what
how they should develop yeah and then
have that energy in a relationship
I'm curious how your relationship with
your children has changed having
undergone this experience and
you know whether whether it's on the
axis of the star chart or optimization
or some other major axis of shift that
has occurred yeah I think there's been a
lot of positive things that have come
out of this to be the primary parent I
mean in a lot of ways the structure that
I just have for my own life to be able
to do things that I know are good for me
and my kids is entirely in my control
now and so that's really helped our
relationship for the three of us to say
hey we all value a straightened house we
all feel better mentally let's just
together keep the house clean and so we
do so it just becomes part of our new
family culture or we converted one of
the rooms in the house into a Zen Zone
which my seven-year-old initiated she
said what if we had a room that was just
for meditation and calming down when
we're upset so they got all their toys
that are more kind of like
self-development toys or you know ones
that will help them relax if they're
frustrated and you know we went to
Target and got a really soft comfortable
blanket and uh you know put things in
there that they'll see and they'll say
oh this would be great for the Zen Zone
picked out a carpet that they can kind
of Trace when they're frustrated and so
I I think there's a lot of like what are
we feeling and what do we have control
over and what do we not have control
over that has helped us kind of together
Bond differently and I also think that
you know in parenting so often we see
people on Instagram or other social
media showing how to be the optimal
parent you know give your kids milk
don't give your kids milk you know give
your kids a high protein diet don't give
your kids a high protein diet and and
there's this idea that you can always
optimize your child
and honestly at this phase they just
need a lot of hugs they need a lot of
like down time they need to have time
that we're creative and we dance and we
move and we spend time outside and those
really kind of simple human needs are
are primary and so we're not going to be
in a million Sports we're not going to
do a bunch of things where we're running
around we're gonna have weekends where
we play the piano and you know we play
outside and you know maybe invite a
couple people over for a campfire so
it's really I think paced us out to say
my kids human needs of connection of
Love of touch like that's good enough
and I can provide that all the time and
so I think it's really been a settling
for the three of us into it something
interesting in that is like what is what
do you optimize for optimizing is a is a
skill that can be very useful in life
and especially in the example of with
children but also in the example with
business or with clients or with uh in
in the therapy practice optimizing for
connection
seems to get better results every time
yeah well even just saying what's a kid
who becomes an adult really need to be a
successful adult so sure there's a basic
level of reading and writing and
communicating and math that all adults
need sure uh you know most kids need to
have at least you know eighth grade
reading and math skills to be an adult
but if I really think about the people I
see that are successful what can they do
they can relate and connect with almost
anybody and so making sure that with my
kids sure I'm gonna have them keep up
with their homework but you know if we
had you know an outdoor
um uh fire a campfire thing where we had
three different campfires invited a
bunch of people from the school and
neighborhood uh you know wore masks and
all that but there isn't a person that
I'm really good friends with that my 10
year old hadn't met and so I introduced
her to Jay and he said hi and she was
about to leave and I said wait a second
why don't you ask Jay how his weeks been
or something about himself so she's
getting in that habit of having
conversations with people different than
herself and so to to then see her have
this kind of micro conversation a little
bit of back and forth and to get better
at that over time you know the next
weekend she was sitting down with one of
my closest friends Paul who she knows
really well and she just sat down next
to her and said hey Paul how's your week
been it's like this is a 45 year old guy
that my 10 year old just sat down and
was chatting it up with so yeah so to me
discovering what are the true things
that I want out of you know the limited
time that I get to be a parent for them
to have as they go into adulthood yeah
interesting something I wanted to go
back to you mentioned that your
seven-year-old came up with the idea of
having a Zen room someplace where they
can go to to calm down their anger and
among other things and I'm curious how
how you approach emotions and difficult
emotions such as anger with your kids
you know whether it's on that spectrum
of you know a star chart too these are
the kinds of emotions that we're going
for versus letting things just develop
how does how does anger show up in your
family and what is what is the way that
you hold it yeah so just yesterday my
ten-year-old she had been in quarantine
uh for five days the me and my
seven-year-old tested negative and so
you know she had had a number of days
all alone but she had all this homework
she needed to do and she had been
amazing like more amazing than I
expected for such a difficult situation
for a 10 year old but she just like hit
a Breaking Point yesterday and was
screaming at me about I'm not gonna do
my homework and this and that and so I
just said I'm gonna step out for a
minute I'm gonna come back in a few
minutes and let you cool down so
allowing it to unfold allowing her to
regroup but I would say centering
ourselves is a big conversational piece
so saying what do you need right now to
to regroup or to recalibrate or to
re-center um to get back to your
Baseline
um so really letting them initiate that
process but then you know in that
situation she she was very mad and I
just said to her I think you need to go
outside for a little bit to just get
back to Baseline and you know usually
she'll listen and other times like
yesterday she was like I'm not gonna do
it and I just said to her I know this is
what your body needs please do it and at
that point she listened and went outside
and then she's able to process she built
a snowman she or a snow woman uh a very
nicely sculpted snow woman
and then she she came back in an hour
and a half later and uh uh I said you
know Daddy I'm sorry I shouldn't have
yelled at you I don't want to do my
homework but I need to and so being able
to then say we're all gonna get angry
that's part of having different opinions
your opinions that are different than
mine are important but we also need to
say hey I'm just here to help you with
your homework ultimately you need to get
your homework done and you know was that
anger serving you in the way you wanted
so helping her understand like the
function of her anger that it's normal
but it's more are we injuring people
through that anger and then are we
resolving in a way that's healthy yeah
what what's a a good example of when
you've had some unexpected or
uncomfortable emotion come up with your
kids in ways that you've you've owned it
and shown that vulnerability and
and let the wisdom of that emotion come
through you in in the most productive
way I'll tell a backstory before I get
into the story answering your question
so uh within the family I've recognized
that as a child there were things that
were always right or always wrong uh and
there wasn't much gray area whereas in
adulthood there's a lot of gray area and
things often aren't just right or just
wrong so that's a philosophy I'm trying
to teach my kids so in one area swearing
I've taught them that I've said their
words the society says are bad I don't
believe that they're necessarily bad but
there are situations where you will get
in trouble for saying these words so
they know the f word they know the SH
word they know all these words we talk
about where would you say those words uh
and use it in appropriate context where
you might get in trouble school around
the grandparents probably around their
mom
um so they understand that when could
you use the f word and I wouldn't make
you get in trouble for that and so we we
talk about when that is appropriate to
express us an emotion that you can't
just say but I'm you know that's so
stinking stupid has a different feeling
than that so effing stupid and so
teaching them that even as seven and ten
year olds the nuances of that so there
was this one day so they're responsible
for putting their own laundry away so I
wash it and bring it up dry it bring it
up to the room and they were both being
little stinkers and would not do it and
I had had a long day and I was sick of
it and I was also frustrated that I'm an
unexpected single dad and there was just
a lot that was emotionally piling up for
me
and they just wouldn't do it and they
were being super defiant around it and I
just said
put your effing laundry away but I
didn't say after and I said the full
word I'm not sure how family friendly
you want the show to be and I like
stormed out and I was just like so mad
and then I went and regrouped got back
to my Baseline uh came back and talked
about how I wasn't happy that I let go
of my emotions but also why did I feel
like the f word may have been somewhat
appropriate in that situation so we we
hashed through it about how there's
times when you are just so mad that you
can't find another word than that and
that also could injure them emotionally
by you know being scary or feeling
unsafe or feeling unloved and I don't
want that for them you know and I should
have stepped out what should I have done
what could I have done and having that
conversation around dad just dropped the
F-bomb is that appropriate
um when do we do that when do we adjust
how do you recover how do you apologize
and then what can I as a dad learn from
that what can they learn from you know
how stressful it can be if you don't put
your laundry away what else should I
have done through the day to not get to
that breaking point over laundry yeah
this sounds like a common theme of the
way that you and your family relate is
to be sitting in the question of how do
we want to be right now how do we want
to be with this emotion how do we want
to be with this situation
rather than should and you know I heard
you mentioned just a moment ago like
what I should have done but I still hear
you I hear that being something that
you're just going back and replaying and
being like okay now now that I've been
through that experience what is it that
I would like to do differently what is
it how is it that I would like to relate
to this
and I think sitting in that is something
really beautiful to be teaching teaching
your children which is not that certain
things are good and bad but that certain
things have various consequences and
those consequences are different based
on your context and life is an
exploration an experiment where you
learn what happens
when you are a certain way and deciding
which way you want to practice being
from a place of discovering what is
actually authentic for you yeah and I
think you know one one mindset I have as
a parent is that you know when they turn
18 or 20 or whenever they decide to
leave the house there's going to
probably be only a handful of major
lessons that that they hold with them on
a regular basis uh and so what are those
handful of lessons I want them to leave
with I mean one as a woman is that you
know consent is something that you
should expect you know in regards to
relationships with other people and so
everything I do is around consent if I'm
you know gonna give them a hug I'll say
do you want a hug you know if if we're
you know wrestling or tickling or
something and they say stop I stop
um and so making sure that consent is a
strong part of of their lives to make
sure that
um you know having some element of
choice you know so many kids you know
they can't eat any sugar until they're
18 and then they go crazy it's like your
whole life you've been told you can or
can't do these things and haven't had to
make your own decisions around food how
you spend your time how you spend you
know all sorts of things I want them to
have a lot of choice and have a lot of
accountability around that and so that's
going to inform things differently so
for example
um yesterday while my daughter's in
quarantine a friend just to you know
drop something off that would make us
feel better while we're all kind of
locking down dropped off a bag of
Cheetos so I gave her a little bowl of
Cheetos and I said I have a surprise for
you it's behind my back but I want you
to think about what's something you want
to do for yourself that's going to make
it feel like you're moving forward in
any area and that you can choose to use
this thing I'm about to give you to
reward yourself and so instead of it
being me giving her the external reward
it's her saying here's a goal for myself
I'm gonna achieve it and then I'm going
to eat these Cheetos that she didn't yet
know she was gonna get and so I showed
her the Cheetos and then she's she had
said okay I could watch a video do an
art project about the documentary I
watch and then when I'm done with that
documentary about otters uh I could eat
the Cheetos great do it for yourself
like it's for your own sense of self but
you know you're rewarding yourself with
the Cheetos so being able to have those
handful of things that I focus on but
those are things that in my own life
even outside of being a parent I'm going
to think about that intentionality
Beyond just being a dad yeah and I'd
love to tie this back into into your
work as well you've written five books
and I'm curious how you're writing and
your approach to writing as a practice
has shifted through this journey yeah I
think that
um
when I used to write it was more like
what does the audience want what what's
the positioning that I want to have for
myself whereas Thursday is the new
Friday has definitely been about the
macro societal shift like do I believe
that the way we're living with a 40 hour
work week plus is that good for society
and so uh you know realizing as I dove
into the history around the 40-hour work
week and actually how recent it actually
is
um and how uh the studies are showing
that it really isn't needed to have a
full 40 hour work week that most of what
we can do in building creativity and
productivity could be done in F32 or
fewer hour work week that process for me
first was just Gathering as much data as
possible to me having as much research
and citations that is beyond you know a
lot of coaches or self-proclaimed
experts out there will just write their
opinions or you know a few case studies
to me I wanted the actual evidence that
shows this and the historical evidence
stories behind it and then you know
finding those stories as well so case
studies businesses
um even just interesting stories about
how the seven day week the Babylonians
totally made up you know 3 000 years ago
because they could only see seven major
planets uh and so we just as easily
could have had you know a thousand day
week uh if they had had better
telescopes so it's like the Romans had
10 day weeks the Egyptians had eight day
weeks so this thing that we think is
really normal the seven day week is
completely made up so discovering those
cool things and saying where would that
fit in the book and then whiteboarding
out each chapter saying okay what are
the main points and then just killing it
as much as I could every Thursday when I
was writing yeah all that's really
fascinating and I'm also curious how
how your approach to your internal locus
of control your like internal reward
system has moved through this through
this process do you do you write books
with the similar with sort of a similar
approach to prior to this
decoupling experience you know I would
so I finished the book before we hit the
road so it was due by October 1st and I
finished it on September 1st uh so I
wanted to not have that hanging over my
head and could just focus on the media
side of of things when we were on the
road
um because I just knew that the focus
would be much different when I was in a
camper and things could go awry much
easier when you know whether it's water
systems or septic systems or who knows
there were so many things that went
wrong
um in addition to the uncoupling right
but I would say that my process in
writing the book really I was learning
Neuroscience around how to be more
productive that I applied immediately to
be more productive in writing the book
about how to be more productive so it
was very meta in that you know like the
University of Illinois had this amazing
research study that looked at vigilance
decrement so vigilance how well you pay
attention to something decrement meaning
that it goes down over time so tasks
that are somewhat boring get more boring
over time you make more errors you're
not as productive but they found that
even just a one minute micro break every
20 minutes completely eliminates
vigilance decrement and so even just
saying okay I'm going to set a timer for
20 minutes and even if I'm in the middle
of a sentence I'm going to get up I'm
going to do a plank I'm going to walk
downstairs I'm gonna get a glass of
carrot juice whatever it is that I need
to do for my body to feel like it's
going to be productive it can't be
looking at a screen it can't be
continuing working just using that
Neuroscience you know around sleep
around you know how we structure our
days about how we do Sprints looking at
my own Sprint type all those things you
know I was writing about in the book but
then directly applying as I was writing
the book behind all this productivity
I'm I'm curious what is your what is a
deeper motivation for you to be
productive because a lot of a lot of
people will find themselves in a loop of
being productive for being productive
sake for churning out more more work
products and I'm curious for you what is
where is it the deeper
the deeper want and the deeper need that
you're fulfilling in this productivity
that you that you practice to me
productivity is the end of the cycle uh
we have to start with slowing down first
um to allow our brains to rest to allow
those good ideas to come out and then to
spend our best time on the best
movements forward instead of just across
the board so when I enter into
productivity every minute that I spend
working is a minute I could be doing a
hobby I could be cleaning the house I
could be you know putting my kids
laundry away if I made if I didn't make
them put it away that you know I could
be doing something different that is
good for my family or my friends or my
relationships so if I go into my work
that way saying I can't dink around uh
and be unproductive because it's
stealing from my family it's stealing
from my friendships is stealing from my
exercise or my body that's a different
posture than being productive for
productive sake productivity's sake then
it becomes if I'm gonna work it needs to
be the best use of my time in regards my
business so I can't just waste time to
waste time now there are times that I
choose to intentionally slow down I
choose to intentionally allow my brain
to free associate so that those good
ideas can come to the surface because we
know from the Neuroscience that when
we're stressed out and maxed out that's
not when we have good ideas it's when
we're taking a shower going for a walk
on a long drive without music on and so
just allowing those intentional times to
slow down and have those hard and soft
boundaries then allows me when I am
going to work to have the most
productive days possible yeah yeah and
it sounds like what you're saying there
was recognizing that everything that
you're doing in your productive space is
in some sense stealing from some other
area of your life it sounds like what
another way to say what you're saying
there is just that it's it's a choice
you're you're optimizing for a different
thing and if you optimize for
productivity you might
forget to optimize for connection with
your children you might for you might
not optimize for connection to the
source of inspiration of what it is that
you're being productive around yeah
absolutely because I think it goes back
to those those core teachings of you
know who am I in the world who do I want
to be how how am I intentional with my
family my friends my hobbies my health
all those you know domain areas that Joe
often talks about if we're not
intentional in those areas then the work
we do is that what you were talking
about that productivity for
productivity's sake yeah so how do you
that's sort of my final question for
this episode how do you teach your kids
or how do you model for your kids
how you approach your purpose in such a
way that will help them find their own
purpose from their internal locus of
control without pattern matching too
much what Daddy does right right well we
did a podcast together while we were on
the road called leave to find uh which
now has a bit of an ironic uh title to
it so the leave defined podcast for for
us to say what's interesting to us
um so I reiterate that I get to do work
that I absolutely love doing and it
helps a lot of people so do I want my
kids to be podcaster sure if they want
to
um I could care less how they choose to
make money as long as they choose to
contribute to society do it in a way
that can eventually sustain themselves
and doesn't hurt other people so for me
it's less important to say here's how
you have to do it but let me give you
opportunities to explore so for example
my seven-year-old when we were at the
Fort Collins Children's Museum they have
this whole amazing section that's a
Hands-On like DJ scratching mixing
section the kids can do this kind of two
turntables into microphone type stuff
from that she said I want to be a DJ and
so my backyard neighbor is like he does
that he's amazing at it he has a new
sequencer he just got and
um so giving her the opportunity to just
explore and play and to me at this age
let's explore and play so you know my my
10 year old a couple years ago she
wanted to do a lemonade stand and so I
said well let's talk about this um you
know there's really two types of
lemonade you know you're going to have
the powdered mix which is really easy
you'll probably be able to charge 25
cents or so for that and there's hand
squeezed lemonade which you probably
could sell for two dollars each here's
what that would Encompass you know
making simple syrup maybe having to be
fancier with basil leaves or frozen
strawberries like which do you want to
do so then we brainstormed she said she
wanted to do the hand squeezed one and
then we said well you know if you just
set up outside do you think many people
are going to come by no like what other
things where might be a better traffic
area well our friends Paul and Diane
have a house that's right on a main area
you know most lemonade stands you don't
realize there's a lemonade stand until
you drive up on it what if we had signs
before it there was a marathon that was
going to be going on what if you did it
on Marathon morning okay Marathon
morning what else do people drink in the
morning oh coffee so we brainstorm all
of these things that she's helping lead
and come up with the solutions for and
then I'm helping to support she ended up
making 90 an hour and so it's like she
killed it I mean like these people are
giving her tips they're like I can't
believe there's basil and frozen
strawberries they're taking pictures of
it and you know she was selling coffee
for two dollars and lemonade for two
dollars and just absolutely killed it
and she actually hired one of the
neighbor boys that was older than her to
help because it was so busy and I'm like
you need to pay Finley like a good wage
at least ten dollars an hour so after
she paid me back after she paid this kid
and paid her sister she still need 90
bucks an hour so to me giving those kind
of opportunities and thoughtful
discussion and you know if she she
didn't want to do it the next two years
and then she just said you know I think
I want to do the lemonade stand again I
said well then you need to call Paul and
Diane and see if you can get on their
calendar to either rent out their front
yard or you know have them donate that
space for you to use it so she's going
through that process of just learning
how do you think like an entrepreneur
without it being something I force on
her yeah fascinating one thing to kind
of poke a little bit that I noticed is
that in in a lot of what you're
describing there like she had the idea
and then it seemed like you came to her
with a bunch of suggestions as well and
I'm curious to what extent like when she
went to do the lemonade stand the second
time to what extent was she coming up
with like oh I remember we did this that
time this the other time and
extrapolating from that I could also
experiment in this way uh to what extent
was that coming up for her internally
and to what extent were you going like
straight to suggestion mode yeah
fortunities so she decides she wants to
do a Power powdered lemonade stand and
sit all day out front in front of our
yard and make two dollars that's fine I
I could care less she'll learn from that
experience just as much but I think most
kids at her age don't even know the
options they don't know how Lemonade's
made uh they don't know what simple
syrup is they don't know that people
like frozen strawberries and basil in
their lemonade they've never made a cup
of coffee and so just being able to say
here are opportunities like we can do
this it's going to be more work what
questions do you have about it well how
much how much does a pound of coffee
cost well it'll cost you 12 dollars or
we have a friend Jen who works at a
coffee shop maybe she'd donate it you
could call Jen and ask her if she'd
donate that so Higher Grounds Coffee
donated like three pounds of coffee to
her first round kids just don't know and
so saying here's a bunch of options what
sounds good to you um so they said you
know when we got home they didn't want
to keep doing the podcast okay great now
they do and so how do we make it
different than just being on the road
because we're not on the road anymore so
now we're making a list of just people
they think are interesting that they
want to interview so their grandparents
our friend Marty he uh you know he's a
DJ like let's have these interesting
people that we just interview so letting
them take the lead kind of second round
and third round while still supporting
him and giving him ideas yeah one of the
things that I really like about what
you're just saying is
that there's there's this impartiality
to the outcome you're not concerned with
how much how successful the lemonade
stand is for your daughter and that it
makes a bunch of money you're excited
that it worked out and that wasn't
really the thing you were aiming for
what you seem to be aiming for is being
in connection with your daughter your
daughter being in connection with what
she's doing and providing as much
guidance without becoming overbearing as
possible so that she is able to optimize
her learning and optimize her enjoyment
and I think that's a really great way to
parent yeah I mean I think so many
parents have their egos wrapped up in
their kid my kid got into this college
or my kid you know got to the state
finals and of course you want to be
proud of your kid
um but if your own ego and sense of
self-worth is coming through your
child's volleyball game in fifth grade
like you probably need to do some
internal work yeah indeed well uh thank
you so much for joining us Joe I really
really love this conversation and I'm
excited to check out your book too it
seems interesting thank you so much for
having me on the show this has been
awesome
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
on your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
[Music]